---
layout: post
title:  "DIY Home Theater"
published: true
date: 2017-04-24 02:00:00
categories: htpc
tags: featured
---
After years of paying exorbitant amounts for monthly cable and satellite service where we only watched a few of the many stations in a package, I decided to look for alternative options to feeding my viewing habits. Torrents were never a realistic option given all the quality issues and risk of viruses made to look like viable files. It was difficult at best to find reliable search engines for the index files and you were dependent on a show's popularity to find enough peers hosting a file to pull from. Streaming services were an option, but it usually required several services to account for all the shows we were interested in and once you had Hulu, Netflix and Playstation Vue you were paying close to what you were paying for cable. I finally decided to give Usenet a try. 

I had heard about Usenet from co-workers several years earlier, but never dug deeper once finding out that you had to pay to get access and getting the interface setup was not user friendly. Most sites that talk about Usenet offer their own services which always seemed shady at best. But once I began digging around in user groups such as Reddit, I began piecing together the steps needed to get a system in place for accessing this secretive world of newsgroups and binary files.

At first I paid for a monthly account with a Usenet provider and setup a file downloader. I created an account on a free indexing service and would find a file I liked, download the NZB file, and drop it into a hot folder where the app would grab it and pull the content via multiple .rar files. I used a utility app to merge these files and then watch the video in the VLC media player on my computer. That was nice, but it was very time consuming. It wouldn't make sense to do that every time I wantes to watch something. Then I learned about SickBeard.

Sickbeard opened my eyes to the real potential of Usenet. It allowed you to input names of shows you were interested in. You would give it the name of your indexing service and the access credentials for your usenet provider, then it would monitor the indexer for new releases of the shows in your library and interact with the downloading software to download the file and move it to a pre-determined directory. At about the same time, I discovered Plex which is software that manages your video (music and photos too) and adds thumbnails and episode details for each file. You can watch shows through this app which runs as a server on one computer and as many free clients on various other devices for watching. Suddenly I had a reliable solution to choosing the specific things I wanted to see, and sitting back and waiting for my computer to do all the heavy lifting. I just had to turn on the TV, change to the HTPC input and choose from the many shows with new content to watch.

As time went on, I would learn about new apps and better ways to locate files. I would learn about how Usenet works and why having more than one provider was so important. I would find better deals for accessing both the binary files and the index files. I would learn by trial and error what works and what doesn't. And yes, getting this process working at peak efficiency is not free. You'll need to pay for a few different provider accounts as well as a private indexer, and I strongly encourage paying for premium features of Plex. But even with all those expenses I average about $100 per year to follow over 50 series and grab movies a couple of weeks before they release on BluRay. Except in the rare event when a service crashes, I practically never touch the apps doing all the work in the background. My only interaction is to add a show when I hear of something interesting, and turn on Plex via my Harmony Remote to see what shows were pulled in since my last visit. There's nothing more exciting than the unexpected addition of a show's first episode of a new season when you weren't expecting it. Which happens often since this setup has the added bonus of bypassing commercials.

I will be adding additional posts here to detail the combination of apps and accounts I use in my current setup. Where applicable, I'll explain some of the settings I used (as much for my benefit as yours what with my poor memory and all). With a little patience and a minimum amount of cash, you can have a similar system to enjoy too.